source/3/3.2/3.2.20/screensaver.rst, before:

Chapter 3.2.20 Screensaver
==========================

Screensaver is an application to control what screensavers are used on the system. 

Usage
------
The :guilabel:`Mode` drop down has 4 settings Disable turns off the screensaver, blank screen only just turns the screen itself off, one screensaver sets one screensaver, and random screensaver selects a random screensaver. To set how long it takes your screen to go to the screensaver change the field that says :guilabel:`Blank After` to the number of minutes you want the system to be idle before starting the screensaver. If you have a random screensaver set you can change with the number of minutes it says with cycle after for when the screensaver will change to another one. The checkbox for :guilabel:`Lock Screen After` takes the number of minutes to lock the screen and the number of minutes is how many minutes it takes to lock the screen.  

If you try to select a screensaver that is not installed it will not show on the right hand side of the window. To preview a screensaver as when it would be activated press the :guilabel:`Preview` button. 

If you want to kill the daemon :menuselection:`File --> Kill Daemon`. To restart the screensaver daemon :menuselection:`File --> Restart Daemon`. 

If you try to open the screensaver settings without having the screensaver daemon running you will bring up a dialog if you want to launch it.

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: screensaver.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 5.42 of Screensaver

How to launch
-------------
To launch screensaver from the menu :menuselection:`Preferences --> Screensaver` or run

.. code:: 

   xscreensaver-demo

from the command line.

Commit message:

Add screensaver fade in out screen blanking

source/3/3.2/3.2.20/screensaver.rst, after:

Chapter 3.2.20 Screensaver
==========================

Screensaver is an application to control what screensavers are used on the system. 

Usage
------
The :guilabel:`Mode` drop down has 4 settings Disable turns off the screensaver, blank screen only just turns the screen itself off, one screensaver sets one screensaver, and random screensaver selects a random screensaver. To set how long it takes your screen to go to the screensaver change the field that says :guilabel:`Blank After` to the number of minutes you want the system to be idle before starting the screensaver. If you have a random screensaver set you can change with the number of minutes it says with cycle after for when the screensaver will change to another one. The checkbox for :guilabel:`Lock Screen After` takes the number of minutes to lock the screen and the number of minutes is how many minutes it takes to lock the screen.  

If you try to select a screensaver that is not installed it will not show on the right hand side of the window. To preview a screensaver as when it would be activated press the :guilabel:`Preview` button. 

If you want to kill the daemon :menuselection:`File --> Kill Daemon`. To restart the screensaver daemon :menuselection:`File --> Restart Daemon`. 

If you try to open the screensaver settings without having the screensaver daemon running you will bring up a dialog if you want to launch it.

To change to get even more settings on your screensaver use the :guilabel:`Advanced` tab. To have your screen fade to black when blanking check the :guilabel:`Fade to Black when Blanking` checkbox. To have your screen fade back in from screen blanking check the :guilabel:`Fade from Black When Unblanking`. 

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: screensaver.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 5.42 of Screensaver

How to launch
-------------
To launch screensaver from the menu :menuselection:`Preferences --> Screensaver` or run

.. code:: 

   xscreensaver-demo

from the command line.
