source/2/2.4/2.4.7/noblenote.rst, before:

Chapter 2.4.7 Noblenote
=======================

Noblenote is an application to make a note on your desktop.

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 1.0.8 of noblenote.

Useage
------
To start a new note right click on the right hand column new note or :menuselection:`Edit --> New Note`. Then enter a title for this note. To open a note double click on that note from the right hand column which will open a new window with your note in it. To input text in the note type in the main body of this window after clicking on it.   

If you wish to delete a notebook right click on a notebook and delete notebook, or with the notebook highlighted press :kbd:`Control + D`, or :menuselection:`Edit --> Delete notebook`. 

To delete a note click on the note and press the button with a page X on it, press :kbd:`Control + Shift + D` or edit :menuselection:`Edit --> Delete note`. 

If you make a mistake tpying and want to undo your changes press :kbd:`Control + z` or :menuselection:`Edit --> Undo`. If you wish to paste text into noblenote press :kbd:`Control + v` or :menuselection:`Edit --> Paste`. To copy text from your note press :kbd:`Control+C` or right click and select :menuselection:`Copy`. To select all text in a note press :kbd:`Control +A`. 

To change prefrences of noblenote press :kbd:`Control +P` or :menuselection:`Settings --> Configure`. To keep noblenote in your system tray after you close noblenote check/uncheck the :guilabel:`Close to tray` checkbox. If you want to change the font for editing notes change the :guilabel:`Note Editor default font` underneath has the font and font size. If you want to toggle showing notes in HTML format check/uncheck the :guilabel:`Convert notes to the HTML format`. If you want to toggle the menu entry to show source check/uncheck the :guilabel:`Show "Show source menu entry`.   

To toggle showing the toolbar press :kbd:`Control +Shift +T` or :menuselection:`View --> Show toolbar`. 

To bring back up your note noblenote will leave a notebook icon in the system tray on the lower right hand corner of the panel by default which can bring back up the noblenote window. 

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: noblenote.png

.. image:: noblenote-note.png

How to launch
-------------
To launch noblenote go to the menu :menuselection:`Acessories --> noblenote` or run 

.. code:: 
   
   noblenote 
   
on the commandline.

Commit message:

Add how to import notes

source/2/2.4/2.4.7/noblenote.rst, after:

Chapter 2.4.7 Noblenote
=======================

Noblenote is an application to make a note on your desktop.

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 1.0.8 of noblenote.

Useage
------
To start a new note right click on the right hand column new note or :menuselection:`Edit --> New Note`. Then enter a title for this note. To open a note double click on that note from the right hand column which will open a new window with your note in it. To input text in the note type in the main body of this window after clicking on it.   

If you wish to delete a notebook right click on a notebook and delete notebook, or with the notebook highlighted press :kbd:`Control + D`, or :menuselection:`Edit --> Delete notebook`. 

To delete a note click on the note and press the button with a page X on it, press :kbd:`Control + Shift + D` or edit :menuselection:`Edit --> Delete note`.

To import notes from a file :menuselection:`File --> Import`.

If you make a mistake tpying and want to undo your changes press :kbd:`Control + z` or :menuselection:`Edit --> Undo`. If you wish to paste text into noblenote press :kbd:`Control + v` or :menuselection:`Edit --> Paste`. To copy text from your note press :kbd:`Control+C` or right click and select :menuselection:`Copy`. To select all text in a note press :kbd:`Control +A`. 

To change prefrences of noblenote press :kbd:`Control +P` or :menuselection:`Settings --> Configure`. To keep noblenote in your system tray after you close noblenote check/uncheck the :guilabel:`Close to tray` checkbox. If you want to change the font for editing notes change the :guilabel:`Note Editor default font` underneath has the font and font size. If you want to toggle showing notes in HTML format check/uncheck the :guilabel:`Convert notes to the HTML format`. If you want to toggle the menu entry to show source check/uncheck the :guilabel:`Show "Show source menu entry`.   

To toggle showing the toolbar press :kbd:`Control +Shift +T` or :menuselection:`View --> Show toolbar`. 

To bring back up your note noblenote will leave a notebook icon in the system tray on the lower right hand corner of the panel by default which can bring back up the noblenote window. 

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: noblenote.png

.. image:: noblenote-note.png

How to launch
-------------
To launch noblenote go to the menu :menuselection:`Acessories --> noblenote` or run 

.. code:: 
   
   noblenote 
   
on the commandline.
