source/2/2.3/2.3.1/lximage.rst, before:

Chapter 2.3.1 lximage
=====================

Lximage is the default image viewer for lubuntu. 

Useage
------
To use lximage use the arrow to the right to view the next file in the folder and the arrow to the left to view the previous folder. To open a new picture press the open button which looks like a blue folder with a piece of paper in it. To save the file as something press the button that looks like a floppy disk.

If you wish to print a picture after viewing it from the :menuselection:`file --> print` or press control+ p to bring up a print dialog.

To rotate an image to the right press the circular arrrow that points to the right or go to :menuselection:`edit --> rotate clockwise`. To rotate conterclockwise use the circular arrow pointing to the left or :menuselection:`edit -->rotate conterclockwise`. To zoom in on a picture press the icon with a magnifying glass with a + symobol on it or press control + +. To zoom out press the button of a magnifying glass with a - symbol in it or press control + -.    

To view the next picture on your image press the right arrow and conversly to view the previous image press the left arrow. To view thumbnials of the current directory you can toggle thumbnials and thumbnails will show at the buttom  with a scrollbar at the bottom of the window to view the whole folder. 

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: LXImage.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 0.7.0 or lximage. 

How to launch
-------------
To launch lximage from the menu :menuselection:`graphics --> lximage` or run

.. code:: 

   lximage-qt 

from the command line.

Commit message:

Add fit and original size buttons to lximage

source/2/2.3/2.3.1/lximage.rst, after:

Chapter 2.3.1 lximage
=====================

Lximage is the default image viewer for lubuntu. 

Useage
------
To use lximage use the arrow to the right to view the next file in the folder and the arrow to the left to view the previous folder. To open a new picture press the open button which looks like a blue folder with a piece of paper in it. To save the file as something press the button that looks like a floppy disk.

If you wish to print a picture after viewing it from the :menuselection:`file --> print` or press control+ p to bring up a print dialog.

To rotate an image to the right press the circular arrrow that points to the right or go to :menuselection:`edit --> rotate clockwise`. To rotate conterclockwise use the circular arrow pointing to the left or :menuselection:`edit -->rotate conterclockwise`. To zoom in on a picture press the icon with a magnifying glass with a + symobol on it or press control + +. To zoom out press the button of a magnifying glass with a - symbol in it or press control + -.    

To view the next picture on your image press the right arrow and conversly to view the previous image press the left arrow. To view thumbnials of the current directory you can toggle thumbnials and thumbnails will show at the buttom  with a scrollbar at the bottom of the window to view the whole folder. 

To view the picture entirely at its original size press :menuselection:`View --> Fit` or the button with a veritcial and horizontal arrow and a folded over buttom right corner. To return your image to its original size press the magnifying button with 1:1 inside it or :menuselection:`View --> Original Size`. 

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: LXImage.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 0.7.0 or lximage. 

How to launch
-------------
To launch lximage from the menu :menuselection:`graphics --> lximage` or run

.. code:: 

   lximage-qt 

from the command line.
