source/4/4.1/discover.rst, before:

Chapter 4.1 Discover Software Center
==========================================
Discover allows you to install and remove programs and utilities. It has a simplistic interface making it easy to navigate and use.

Usage
------
Discover allows you to search for applications by using the search box. Clicking on a program will give you a description of it. When installing or removing software, you will be prompted for your password. You can also browse through different categories on the left clicking on the different categories. To move back from a category or search press the back button which functions similar to the back button in a web browser. In the results after selecting your program you are looking at you can select a screenshot and get a bigger view of the screenshot click on the screenshot. 

To search for programs in discover type in the search bar in the upper left or press :kbd:`Control + F`.  

Discover allows you to update software using the Updates tab located on the bottom of the left column. You can click the button to "check for updates" manually.

To remove software use the Installed tab. You can browse your installed packages, search using the search bar (upper left corner), and the click the remove button to remove software.

In the upper right corner of discover you can have a Sort category to sort your search results by name, rating, size, and release date.  



Screenshot
----------

.. image:: discover_screen.png


Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 5.13.5 of Discover.

How to launch
-------------
To launch Discover from the menu :menuselection:`System Tools --> Discover` or run 

.. code:: 

   plasma-discover 
   
from the command line.

Commit message:

Add note about discover is only for GUI packages

source/4/4.1/discover.rst, after:

Chapter 4.1 Discover Software Center
==========================================
Discover allows you to install and remove programs and utilities. It has a simplistic interface making it easy to navigate and use. Discover however only shows GUI application packages so if you are looking for GUI command line packages please use muon instead.

Usage
------
Discover allows you to search for applications by using the search box. Clicking on a program will give you a description of it. When installing or removing software, you will be prompted for your password. You can also browse through different categories on the left clicking on the different categories. To move back from a category or search press the back button which functions similar to the back button in a web browser. In the results after selecting your program you are looking at you can select a screenshot and get a bigger view of the screenshot click on the screenshot. 

To search for programs in discover type in the search bar in the upper left or press :kbd:`Control + F`.  

Discover allows you to update software using the Updates tab located on the bottom of the left column. You can click the button to "check for updates" manually.

To remove software use the Installed tab. You can browse your installed packages, search using the search bar (upper left corner), and the click the remove button to remove software.

In the upper right corner of discover you can have a Sort category to sort your search results by name, rating, size, and release date.  



Screenshot
----------

.. image:: discover_screen.png


Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 5.13.5 of Discover.

How to launch
-------------
To launch Discover from the menu :menuselection:`System Tools --> Discover` or run 

.. code:: 

   plasma-discover 
   
from the command line.
