source/2/2.1/2.1.1/Falkon.rst, before:

Chapter 2.1.1 Falkon
====================

Description
-----------
Falkon is a realitively lightweight tabbed browser installed by default in Lubuntu 18.10

Falkon has features of other browsers such as:
  - Tab support 
  - built in adblocker.
  - Download manager
  - Favorites, Bookmarks
  - Open Source

Useage
------
To open a new tab to have multiple tabs open at once Press the green button shaped like a plus and a new tab will open. To close a tab Press the red x button with a click. To go back to a previous page you have visited press the blue arrow on the far left underneath all of your tabs to go back a page.  To go forward to a page you have already visited after htting the back button press the blue arrow pointing to the right but if you can't go forward anymore the arrow will be grayed out.

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version  3.0.1 of Falkon.

How To Launch
-------------
In the menu go to Internet -> Falkon which has a purple icon with the head of a bird in it and a purple background or run falkon.

Commit message:

Add refresh and home button and start of address bar

source/2/2.1/2.1.1/Falkon.rst, after:

Chapter 2.1.1 Falkon
====================

Description
-----------
Falkon is a realitively lightweight tabbed browser installed by default in Lubuntu 18.10

Falkon has features of other browsers such as:
  - Tab support 
  - built in adblocker.
  - Download manager
  - Favorites, Bookmarks
  - Open Source

Useage
------
To open a new tab to have multiple tabs open at once Press the green button shaped like a plus and a new tab will open. To close a tab Press the red x button with a click. To go back to a previous page you have visited press the blue arrow on the far left underneath all of your tabs to go back a page.  To go forward to a page you have already visited after htting the back button press the blue arrow pointing to the right but if you can't go forward anymore the arrow will be grayed out. If you want to refresh the page the button with a clockwise circular arrow will reload the current webpage if it is not responding. The button that looks like a house will take you to your browsers home page.

The bar to the right of the house is the adress bar. You can type a url to get to a webpage if you know about them. You can also edit if you are at say `htpps://lubuntu.me/` you can type in the address bar to make it say `https://manual.lubuntu.me/` to get to this manual.  

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version  3.0.1 of Falkon.

How To Launch
-------------
In the menu go to Internet -> Falkon which has a purple icon with the head of a bird in it and a purple background or run falkon.
