source/2/2.4/2.4.3/Kcalc.rst, before:

Chapter 2.4.3 Kcalc
===================

Kcalc is a scientific calculator application.

Features:

 - trignometric functions
 - factorials
 - built in mathematical and scientific constants.
 - memory
 - copy and paste

Useage
------
To do simple arithmetic click the numbers and then press the sign for addition, multiplication, subtraction,  or division. You can also type in the numbers and press + for addition, - for subtraction, * for multiplication and / for division. To view the answer press the button that is an =. 

To make a number negative press the button that looks like a +/-. To insert decimals press the decimal point button which looks like . when you get to the part which is less than a whole number. To clear input from Kcalc Press the button with a C on it.   


Screenshot
----------
.. image:: Kcalc.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 18.04.3 of Kcalc.

How to launch
-------------
To launch kcalc go to accessories -> Kcalc or run

.. code::

   kcalc 
 
from the command line.

Commit message:

Add () and copy/paste to Kcalc

source/2/2.4/2.4.3/Kcalc.rst, after:

Chapter 2.4.3 Kcalc
===================

Kcalc is a scientific calculator application.

Features:

 - trignometric functions
 - factorials
 - built in mathematical and scientific constants.
 - memory
 - copy and paste

Useage
------
To do simple arithmetic click the numbers and then press the sign for addition, multiplication, subtraction,  or division. You can also type in the numbers and press + for addition, - for subtraction, * for multiplication and / for division. To view the answer press the button that is an =. 

To make a number negative press the button that looks like a +/-. To insert decimals press the decimal point button which looks like . when you get to the part which is less than a whole number. To clear input from Kcalc Press the button with a C on it. To group operations so they happen together use the parenthesis to make things grouped to gether for example 2*(2+3) would give the result of 10 because it would add 2 and 3 and then multiply by two.

To copy and answer out of Kcalc press control + c or edit -> copy from the menu. To paste a number into Kcalc you can press control + v or edit -> paste from the menu.  


Screenshot
----------
.. image:: Kcalc.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 18.04.3 of Kcalc.

How to launch
-------------
To launch kcalc go to accessories -> Kcalc or run

.. code::

   kcalc 
 
from the command line.
