source/2/2.2/2.2.2/libreoffice_calc.rst, before:

Chapter 2.2.2 LibreOffice Calc
==============================

LibreOffice Calc is the default spreadsheet program for Lubuntu.

Usage
------
To move between cells press the arrow keys. To enter data into cells type in the keyboard. To select cells left click and drag to select the cells you want. To sum data from cells in the cell where you want the sum is to press the button that looks like Σ character and then drag the mouse over the cells you want to add. To sort your cells in descending order press the button with bullet points and an arrow going down. To sort in ascending order press the button with bullet points and an arrow pointing upwards.   

.. image:: calc-save.png

To save your spreadsheet you need to press the button that looks like a floppy disk, press the keyboard shortcut or go to :menuselection:`File --> Save`. To save with a different file name :menuselection:`File --> Save as`. To open a file press the button that looks like a brown folder and add select the file you want from the dialog or :menuselection:`File --> Open`. To open a recent document :menuselection:`File --> Recent Documents`.

To copy data you can right click :menuselection:`Copy`, press the button with two pieces of paper or press :kbd:`control + c`. To paste data press control :kbd:`control +v`, :menuselection:`Edit -->  Paste`, right click :menuselection:`Paste`, or press the button that is a clipboard with a piece of paper on it. To cut text press :kbd:`control+x` or press the scissors button to cut text. If you want to paste your text unformatted press :kbd:`Control+Shift + Alt+V` or :menuselection:`Edit --> Paste Unformatted Text`.

To change to showing currency for the number press :kbd:`Control+Shift+4` or :menuselection:`Format --> Number Format --> Currency`. To change to percentage press :kbd:`Control+Shift+5` or :menuselection:`Format --> Number Format --> Percentage`. To switch back to a normal number press :kbd:`Control+Shift+1` or :menuselection:`Format --> Number Format --> Number`. 

To view values highlighted in another color to see them easier press :kbd:`Control+F8` or :menuselection:`View --> Value Highlighting`.

To view a long list of functions to use :menuselection:`View --> Function List`. To select different functions left click on the function name in the column. To insert a function press the :guilabel:`fx` button. To sort by different categories of functions use the drop down menu to the right of the :guilabel:`fx` button. To close this function sidebar press the :guilabel:`x` button.

To see a gallery of stock images for your spreadsheet :menuselection:`View --> Gallery`. To get a list of different categories of images beneath :guilabel:`Galleries` and left click to select your image. To move an image in from the gallery to your spreadsheet left click on the image and drag the image to where you want.

To style part of your spreadsheet to bring lots of attention to a cell :menuselection:`Styles --> Accent 1`. To bring slightly less attention to a cell :menuselection:`Styles --> Accent 2`. To bring even less attention to a cell :menuselection:`Styles --> Accent 3`. To style a cell like a heading :menuselection:`Styles --> Heading 1`. To have a slightly smaller heading :menuselection:`Styles -->  Heading 2`. To switch back to your original style :menuselection:`Styles --> Default`.

To insert an image press :menuselection:`Insert --> Image`. To select an image to change how it appears in your spreadsheet left click on it. To resizing your image while keeping the same aspect ratio click on the box on the corner of your image. To stretch or shrink an image horizontally left click on the boxes on the left or right hand side and then release when in the giant position. To stretch on shrink your image vertically click on the box on the top or bottom and drag to your desired position.


If you want to insert a new column to the left of a column right click on the letter for the column :menuselection:`Insert Column Before`. If you want the new column to the right is right click on the letter and :menuselection:`Insert Column After`. To insert a row above the current row right click on the number and :menuselection:`Insert Row Above`. To insert a row below the current row right click on the number and :menuselection:`Insert Row Below`. To delete a row or column right click the number  and select :menuselection:`Delete rows` or :menuselection:`Delete Column`.  

To change the size of a row or column of cells click in between the border of that particular row or column and drag with the mouse to give yourself room. 

To sort your data like a bunch of names first select all the cells with the mouse :menuselection:`Data --> Sort Ascending`. If you want the reverse order to this you can have :menuselection:`Data --> Sort Descending`.  

To undo a selection press :kbd:`control +z` or press the button with the arrow looping around and pointing to the left. To redo an operation press :kbd:`Control +y` or the number looping to the right and exiting to the left.  

To zoom to view a full page on your spreadsheet in the menu :menuselection:`View --> Zoom --> Entire Page`. To view the whole width of your page on the menu :menuselection:`View --> Zoom --> Page Width`. To zoom to a particular percentage :menuselection:`View --> Zoom` and select the percentage you want.  

.. image:: libreoffice_calc.png

To select all cells in your spreadsheet press :kbd:`Control+A`. To select an entire column press :kbd:`Control+Space` or :menuselection:`Edit --> Select --> Select Column`. To select an entire row press :kbd:`Shift +Space` or :menuselection:`Edit --> Select --> Select Row`.

To create a new spreadsheet in the same file press the button on the bottom that looks like a :guilabel:`+` or :menuselection:`Sheet --> Insert Sheet`. To switch between each sheet press the button on each sheet at the bottom near the button to add a new sheet.


To insert a special character not on your keyboard :menuselection:`Insert --> Special Character`. To select what character to insert left click in the center of the inserting character window. To actually insert the symbol press the :guilabel:`Insert` button.

.. image:: calc-specialcharacter.png

To insert a hyperlink in Libreoffice-calc :menuselection:`Insert --> Hyperlink` or press :kbd:`Control+K`. To actually type the address in the :guilabel:`URL` field. To switch to a button for the hyperlink use the :guilabel:`Form` button. To switch back to text use the :guilabel:`Form` drop down and select :guilabel:`Text`.

.. image:: calc-link.png

To quit LibreOffice Calc press :kbd:`Control+Q`.

Charts
------
To get to the dialog of how to insert a chart :menuselection:`Insert --> Chart`. The first selection is to choose a :guilabel:`Column`, :guilabel:`Bar`, :guilabel:`Pie`, :guilabel:`Area`, :guilabel:`Line`, :guilabel:`XY(Scatter)`, :guilabel:`Bubble`, :guilabel:`Net`, :guilabel:`Stock`, or  :guilabel:`Column and Line` chart. To change the subtype of graph click the picture of a chart that looks like the type you want. To switch to the next step of making a graph press the :guilabel:`Next` button.

.. image:: chartwindow.png

The :guilabel:`Data Range` tab controls what data will be in the chart and how present it. To switch to basing the bottom axis of your chart on rows of data press the :guilabel:`Data series in rows` button. To choose to switch your bottom axis of your chart on columns press the :guilabel:`Data series in columns` button. To use the first row as a label on each item on the chart check the :guilabel:`First row as label` checkbox. To input a custom title on the first column of your chart check the :guilabel:`First column as Label` checkbox.

.. image:: chart-data-range.png

The :guilabel:`Chart Elements` tab controls labels and displaying legends on your chart. To add a title to your chart type your title in the :guilabel:`Title` field. To add a subtitle to your chart type it in the :guilabel:`Subtitle` field. To add a label to your horizontal axis type your label in the :guilabel:`X axis` field. To label your vertical axis type your label in the :guilabel:`Y axis` field. To have a vertical grid lines on your chart check the :guilabel:`X axis` checkbox. To have horizontal lines on your grid check the :guilabel:`Y axis` checkbox. To toggle displaying a legend on your graph check the :guilabel:`Display legend` checkbox. To move the legend to the left hand side press the :guilabel:`Left` button. To move the legend to the right hand side press the :guilabel:`Right` button. To move the legend to the top of the chart press the :guilabel:`Top` button. To move the legend to the bottom of the chart press the :guilabel:`Bottom` button.

.. image:: chart-elements.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version  6.3.1.2 of LibreOffice Calc. 

How to Launch
-------------
To launch LibreOffice Calc from the menu go to :menuselection:`Office --> LibreOffice Calc` or run 

.. code::

   localc 
   
from the command line.

Commit message:

Add LibreOffice Calc icon description

source/2/2.2/2.2.2/libreoffice_calc.rst, after:

Chapter 2.2.2 LibreOffice Calc
==============================

LibreOffice Calc is the default spreadsheet program for Lubuntu.

Usage
------
To move between cells press the arrow keys. To enter data into cells type in the keyboard. To select cells left click and drag to select the cells you want. To sum data from cells in the cell where you want the sum is to press the button that looks like Σ character and then drag the mouse over the cells you want to add. To sort your cells in descending order press the button with bullet points and an arrow going down. To sort in ascending order press the button with bullet points and an arrow pointing upwards.   

.. image:: calc-save.png

To save your spreadsheet you need to press the button that looks like a floppy disk, press the keyboard shortcut or go to :menuselection:`File --> Save`. To save with a different file name :menuselection:`File --> Save as`. To open a file press the button that looks like a brown folder and add select the file you want from the dialog or :menuselection:`File --> Open`. To open a recent document :menuselection:`File --> Recent Documents`.

To copy data you can right click :menuselection:`Copy`, press the button with two pieces of paper or press :kbd:`control + c`. To paste data press control :kbd:`control +v`, :menuselection:`Edit -->  Paste`, right click :menuselection:`Paste`, or press the button that is a clipboard with a piece of paper on it. To cut text press :kbd:`control+x` or press the scissors button to cut text. If you want to paste your text unformatted press :kbd:`Control+Shift + Alt+V` or :menuselection:`Edit --> Paste Unformatted Text`.

To change to showing currency for the number press :kbd:`Control+Shift+4` or :menuselection:`Format --> Number Format --> Currency`. To change to percentage press :kbd:`Control+Shift+5` or :menuselection:`Format --> Number Format --> Percentage`. To switch back to a normal number press :kbd:`Control+Shift+1` or :menuselection:`Format --> Number Format --> Number`. 

To view values highlighted in another color to see them easier press :kbd:`Control+F8` or :menuselection:`View --> Value Highlighting`.

To view a long list of functions to use :menuselection:`View --> Function List`. To select different functions left click on the function name in the column. To insert a function press the :guilabel:`fx` button. To sort by different categories of functions use the drop down menu to the right of the :guilabel:`fx` button. To close this function sidebar press the :guilabel:`x` button.

To see a gallery of stock images for your spreadsheet :menuselection:`View --> Gallery`. To get a list of different categories of images beneath :guilabel:`Galleries` and left click to select your image. To move an image in from the gallery to your spreadsheet left click on the image and drag the image to where you want.

To style part of your spreadsheet to bring lots of attention to a cell :menuselection:`Styles --> Accent 1`. To bring slightly less attention to a cell :menuselection:`Styles --> Accent 2`. To bring even less attention to a cell :menuselection:`Styles --> Accent 3`. To style a cell like a heading :menuselection:`Styles --> Heading 1`. To have a slightly smaller heading :menuselection:`Styles -->  Heading 2`. To switch back to your original style :menuselection:`Styles --> Default`.

To insert an image press :menuselection:`Insert --> Image`. To select an image to change how it appears in your spreadsheet left click on it. To resizing your image while keeping the same aspect ratio click on the box on the corner of your image. To stretch or shrink an image horizontally left click on the boxes on the left or right hand side and then release when in the giant position. To stretch on shrink your image vertically click on the box on the top or bottom and drag to your desired position.


If you want to insert a new column to the left of a column right click on the letter for the column :menuselection:`Insert Column Before`. If you want the new column to the right is right click on the letter and :menuselection:`Insert Column After`. To insert a row above the current row right click on the number and :menuselection:`Insert Row Above`. To insert a row below the current row right click on the number and :menuselection:`Insert Row Below`. To delete a row or column right click the number  and select :menuselection:`Delete rows` or :menuselection:`Delete Column`.  

To change the size of a row or column of cells click in between the border of that particular row or column and drag with the mouse to give yourself room. 

To sort your data like a bunch of names first select all the cells with the mouse :menuselection:`Data --> Sort Ascending`. If you want the reverse order to this you can have :menuselection:`Data --> Sort Descending`.  

To undo a selection press :kbd:`control +z` or press the button with the arrow looping around and pointing to the left. To redo an operation press :kbd:`Control +y` or the number looping to the right and exiting to the left.  

To zoom to view a full page on your spreadsheet in the menu :menuselection:`View --> Zoom --> Entire Page`. To view the whole width of your page on the menu :menuselection:`View --> Zoom --> Page Width`. To zoom to a particular percentage :menuselection:`View --> Zoom` and select the percentage you want.  

.. image:: libreoffice_calc.png

To select all cells in your spreadsheet press :kbd:`Control+A`. To select an entire column press :kbd:`Control+Space` or :menuselection:`Edit --> Select --> Select Column`. To select an entire row press :kbd:`Shift +Space` or :menuselection:`Edit --> Select --> Select Row`.

To create a new spreadsheet in the same file press the button on the bottom that looks like a :guilabel:`+` or :menuselection:`Sheet --> Insert Sheet`. To switch between each sheet press the button on each sheet at the bottom near the button to add a new sheet.


To insert a special character not on your keyboard :menuselection:`Insert --> Special Character`. To select what character to insert left click in the center of the inserting character window. To actually insert the symbol press the :guilabel:`Insert` button.

.. image:: calc-specialcharacter.png

To insert a hyperlink in Libreoffice-calc :menuselection:`Insert --> Hyperlink` or press :kbd:`Control+K`. To actually type the address in the :guilabel:`URL` field. To switch to a button for the hyperlink use the :guilabel:`Form` button. To switch back to text use the :guilabel:`Form` drop down and select :guilabel:`Text`.

.. image:: calc-link.png

To quit LibreOffice Calc press :kbd:`Control+Q`.

Charts
------
To get to the dialog of how to insert a chart :menuselection:`Insert --> Chart`. The first selection is to choose a :guilabel:`Column`, :guilabel:`Bar`, :guilabel:`Pie`, :guilabel:`Area`, :guilabel:`Line`, :guilabel:`XY(Scatter)`, :guilabel:`Bubble`, :guilabel:`Net`, :guilabel:`Stock`, or  :guilabel:`Column and Line` chart. To change the subtype of graph click the picture of a chart that looks like the type you want. To switch to the next step of making a graph press the :guilabel:`Next` button.

.. image:: chartwindow.png

The :guilabel:`Data Range` tab controls what data will be in the chart and how present it. To switch to basing the bottom axis of your chart on rows of data press the :guilabel:`Data series in rows` button. To choose to switch your bottom axis of your chart on columns press the :guilabel:`Data series in columns` button. To use the first row as a label on each item on the chart check the :guilabel:`First row as label` checkbox. To input a custom title on the first column of your chart check the :guilabel:`First column as Label` checkbox.

.. image:: chart-data-range.png

The :guilabel:`Chart Elements` tab controls labels and displaying legends on your chart. To add a title to your chart type your title in the :guilabel:`Title` field. To add a subtitle to your chart type it in the :guilabel:`Subtitle` field. To add a label to your horizontal axis type your label in the :guilabel:`X axis` field. To label your vertical axis type your label in the :guilabel:`Y axis` field. To have a vertical grid lines on your chart check the :guilabel:`X axis` checkbox. To have horizontal lines on your grid check the :guilabel:`Y axis` checkbox. To toggle displaying a legend on your graph check the :guilabel:`Display legend` checkbox. To move the legend to the left hand side press the :guilabel:`Left` button. To move the legend to the right hand side press the :guilabel:`Right` button. To move the legend to the top of the chart press the :guilabel:`Top` button. To move the legend to the bottom of the chart press the :guilabel:`Bottom` button.

.. image:: chart-elements.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version  6.3.1.2 of LibreOffice Calc. 

How to Launch
-------------
To launch LibreOffice Calc from the menu go to :menuselection:`Office --> LibreOffice Calc` or run 

.. code::

   localc 
   
from the command line. The icon for LibreOffice Calc is a paper with a green icon with a spreadsheet on it.
