source/F/keyboard_shortcuts.rst, before:

*****************************
Appendix F Hotkeys shortcuts
*****************************

Hotkeys, also known as keyboard shortcuts, allow users to easily navigate, start applications, and change settings like resize windows. These are useful as they create a smooth and time efficient user experience. It would benefit users to take a few minutes to learn some of these shortcuts.

Lubuntu has manages the keyboard shortcuts using two layers. Namely, LXQt Global Keys and Openbox.

Global-keys
--------------

Global-keys (lxqt-globalkeysd) is a component of the LXQt environment. Global-keys takes preference over Openbox keyboard shortcuts. Global keys are viewed, (dis)enabled and managed using Shortcut keys (Chapter 3.2.14).


Openbox keyboard shortcuts
-------------------------------
Openbox keyboard shortcuts is the second layer managing keyboard shortcuts. It is preferred for windows management like resizing.

.. note::   Global-keys will take preference over openbox bindings. If a key is used in Global-keys, it will not work in Openbox keyboard shortcuts. For example if the W(indows) key opens the LXQT application menu (equivilant of the windows start menu) in Global-keys, Openbox commands like window resizing (W + arrow keys) will not work correctly. Keep this in mind when using and editing keyboard shortcuts. 



The table below shows Lubuntu's default Openbox keyboard shortcuts:


**Modifier keys** 	

Key     description

====    ========================
S 	     Shift key

C 	     Control key

A 	     Alt key

W 	     Super key (Usually bound to the Windows key on keyboards which have one)

M        Meta key

H 	     Hyper key (If it is bound to something) 
====    ========================


.. include:: openbox_keyboard.rst

Commit message:

Add keyboard bindings openbox with rest of appendix F thanks wxl

source/F/keyboard_shortcuts.rst, after:

*****************************
Appendix F Hotkeys shortcuts
*****************************

Hotkeys, also known as keyboard shortcuts, allow users to easily navigate, start applications, and change settings like resize windows. These are useful as they create a smooth and time efficient user experience. It would benefit users to take a few minutes to learn some of these shortcuts.

Lubuntu has manages the keyboard shortcuts using two layers. Namely, LXQt Global Keys and Openbox.

Global-keys
--------------

Global-keys (lxqt-globalkeysd) is a component of the LXQt environment. Global-keys takes preference over Openbox keyboard shortcuts. Global keys are viewed, (dis)enabled and managed using Shortcut keys (Chapter 3.2.14).


Openbox keyboard shortcuts
-------------------------------
Openbox keyboard shortcuts is the second layer managing keyboard shortcuts. It is preferred for windows management like resizing. To change these settings see this link on the `openbox wiki bindings<http://openbox.org/wiki/Help:Bindings>`_

.. note::   Global-keys will take preference over openbox bindings. If a key is used in Global-keys, it will not work in Openbox keyboard shortcuts. For example if the W(indows) key opens the LXQT application menu (equivilant of the windows start menu) in Global-keys, Openbox commands like window resizing (W + arrow keys) will not work correctly. Keep this in mind when using and editing keyboard shortcuts. 



The table below shows Lubuntu's default Openbox keyboard shortcuts:


**Modifier keys** 	

Key     description

====    ========================
S 	     Shift key

C 	     Control key

A 	     Alt key

W 	     Super key (Usually bound to the Windows key on keyboards which have one)

M        Meta key

H 	     Hyper key (If it is bound to something) 
====    ========================


.. include:: openbox_keyboard.rst
