source/3/3.2/3.2.19/Printers.rst, before:

Chapter 3.2.19 Printers
=======================

Printers allows you to configure your printer and show your print queue.

Usage
------
To view your print queue right click on the printer and right click view print queue or with the printer selected press :kbd:`Control+F` or :menuselection:`Printer --> View Print Queue` and if a job is held you can restart it. 

To add a new printer press the :guilabel:`Add` button or :menuselection:`Server --> New --> Printer`. A dialog will popup showing where you can connect the printer. Then look for your printer in the sidebar on the left hand side. Left click on the name of your printer and press the :guilabel:`Forward` button. To change the name of your printer type it in the :guilabel:`Printer Name` field. To change the description of your printer type in the :guilabel:`Description` field. To have a location for the printer type in the :guilabel:`Location` field. To move to the next step press the :guilabel:`Forward` button. After this a dialog will pop up asking if you want to print a test page. 

.. image::   new_printer.png

If you want to delete a printer :menuselection:`Printer --> Delete` after left clicking on the printer will delete the printer after you left click on it and you will be asked to confirm so you do not accidentally delete your printer. If you have multiple printers and want to set one as default right click on the printer and select :menuselection:`Set As Default`.

To view or change the properties of printer or make changes with :menuselection:`Printer --> Properties`. To see settings on the printer has use the :guilabel:`Settings` tab. To change how to describe and name your :guilabel:`Description` field. To change where the location of this printer is change the :guilabel:`Location` field. To choose a different driver to use for your printer press the :guilabel:`Change` button to the rigght of :guilabel:`Make and Model`. To print a test page press the :guilabel:`Print Test Page` button.

To close printers press :kbd:`Control+Q`.

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: printers.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 1.5.11 of printers.

How to launch
-------------
To launch printers from the menu :menuselection:`Preferences --> Printers` or run

.. code:: 

   system-config-printer 
   
from the command line.

Commit message:

Add how to add users to a list of not being allowed to print

source/3/3.2/3.2.19/Printers.rst, after:

Chapter 3.2.19 Printers
=======================

Printers allows you to configure your printer and show your print queue.

Usage
------
To view your print queue right click on the printer and right click view print queue or with the printer selected press :kbd:`Control+F` or :menuselection:`Printer --> View Print Queue` and if a job is held you can restart it. 

To add a new printer press the :guilabel:`Add` button or :menuselection:`Server --> New --> Printer`. A dialog will popup showing where you can connect the printer. Then look for your printer in the sidebar on the left hand side. Left click on the name of your printer and press the :guilabel:`Forward` button. To change the name of your printer type it in the :guilabel:`Printer Name` field. To change the description of your printer type in the :guilabel:`Description` field. To have a location for the printer type in the :guilabel:`Location` field. To move to the next step press the :guilabel:`Forward` button. After this a dialog will pop up asking if you want to print a test page. 

.. image::   new_printer.png

If you want to delete a printer :menuselection:`Printer --> Delete` after left clicking on the printer will delete the printer after you left click on it and you will be asked to confirm so you do not accidentally delete your printer. If you have multiple printers and want to set one as default right click on the printer and select :menuselection:`Set As Default`.

To view or change the properties of printer or make changes with :menuselection:`Printer --> Properties`. To see settings on the printer has use the :guilabel:`Settings` tab. To change how to describe and name your :guilabel:`Description` field. To change where the location of this printer is change the :guilabel:`Location` field. To choose a different driver to use for your printer press the :guilabel:`Change` button to the rigght of :guilabel:`Make and Model`. To print a test page press the :guilabel:`Print Test Page` button.

If you want to change which users can use this printer use the :guilabel:`Acess Control` tab. To add a user to not be allowed to print type there name in the bar and press the :guilabel:`Add` button.

To close printers press :kbd:`Control+Q`.

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: printers.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 1.5.11 of printers.

How to launch
-------------
To launch printers from the menu :menuselection:`Preferences --> Printers` or run

.. code:: 

   system-config-printer 
   
from the command line.
