source/1/1.2/booting_the_image.rst, before:

Chapter 1.2: Booting the image
==============================

Now that you have the ISO file, you need to put the image on media of some sort and boot the image for installation.

**This requires additional research on your own, as this varies depending on your hardware.**

Choosing the media
------------------
In order to boot the image, you need to put it somewhere. You have three choices, depending on which image you
downloaded:

.
 - a CD (**only works with the alternate images**)
 - a DVD
 - a 1 GB (or greater) USB drive


Writing/burning the image
-------------------------
Here are some common tools to burn images onto CDs/DVDs:
 - `Brasero <https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Brasero/>`_
 - Windows Disc Image Burner
 - InfraRecorder

Unfortunately, burning images to CDs or DVDs is beyond the scope of this manual. The Ubuntu website has several guides
on this topic, and we recommend you read them if you plan on doing this.

Guides from the Ubuntu website:
 - `How to burn a DVD on Ubuntu <http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/burn-a-dvd-on-ubuntu>`_
 - `How to burn a DVD on Windows <http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/burn-a-dvd-on-windows>`_
 - `How to burn a DVD on macOS <http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/burn-a-dvd-on-mac-osx>`_

For writing images to USB drives on Linux, we recommend `mkusb <https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb>`_, a tool developed by a Lubuntu team member.

Writing images to USB drives from macOS or Windows is beyond the scope of this book, but the Ubuntu website also
has several guides on this:

.
 - `How to create a bootable USB stick on Windows <http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/create-a-usb-stick-on-windows>`_
 - `How to create a bootable USB stick on macOS <http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/create-a-usb-stick-on-mac-osx>`_


Booting the image
-----------------
With your media inserted, reboot your computer. Depending on your hardware configuration, it may boot into the image
right away, or you might need to press a key at startup for boot options. This varies.

**You have now booted the image. Please continue to Chapter 1.3.**

Commit message:

Remove alternate refrence and provide hint on where to find startup boot options

source/1/1.2/booting_the_image.rst, after:

Chapter 1.2: Booting the image
==============================

Now that you have the ISO file, you need to put the image on media of some sort and boot the image for installation.

**This requires additional research on your own, as this varies depending on your hardware.**

Choosing the media
------------------
In order to boot the image, you need to put it somewhere. You have three choices, depending on which image you
downloaded:

.
 - a DVD
 - a 1 GB (or greater) USB drive


Writing/burning the image
-------------------------
Here are some common tools to burn images onto CDs/DVDs:
 - `Brasero <https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Brasero/>`_
 - Windows Disc Image Burner
 - InfraRecorder

Unfortunately, burning images to CDs or DVDs is beyond the scope of this manual. The Ubuntu website has several guides
on this topic, and we recommend you read them if you plan on doing this.

Guides from the Ubuntu website:
 - `How to burn a DVD on Ubuntu <http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/burn-a-dvd-on-ubuntu>`_
 - `How to burn a DVD on Windows <http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/burn-a-dvd-on-windows>`_
 - `How to burn a DVD on macOS <http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/burn-a-dvd-on-mac-osx>`_

For writing images to USB drives on Linux, we recommend `mkusb <https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb>`_, a tool developed by a Lubuntu team member.

Writing images to USB drives from macOS or Windows is beyond the scope of this book, but the Ubuntu website also
has several guides on this:

.
 - `How to create a bootable USB stick on Windows <http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/create-a-usb-stick-on-windows>`_
 - `How to create a bootable USB stick on macOS <http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/create-a-usb-stick-on-mac-osx>`_


Booting the image
-----------------
With your media inserted, reboot your computer. Depending on your hardware configuration, it may boot into the image
right away, or you might need to press a key at startup for boot options. This varies but looking for documentation specific to your hardware will likely provide the answer.

**You have now booted the image. Please continue to Chapter 1.3.**
