source/2/2.5/2.5.1/K3b.rst, before:

Chapter 2.5.1 K3b
=================

K3b is the default CD or DVD buring software on Lubuntu. 

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 18.04.3 of K3b.

Useage
------
To start a new data project to save documents and other files :menuselection:`File --> New Project --> New Data Project`. To add files to a project :menuselection:`Add Files...`. After doing this a dialog to open files will open up. To select mulitple files to add at this time press :kbd:`Control+ Left click` on the files. Another way to add files is to left click on your files in the center of the window. To swtich to a folder double click on them with the left mouse button on a folder. To go up a level press the button that is an upward pointed arrow button. To go back to a previous folder press the leftward pointed arrow button. To go forward to a folder you went back from press the rightward pointed arrow.

The files you add to your project will now be shown at a pane towards the bottom of the screen. If you decide against adding a file after adding it you can select it by left clicking and pressing :kbd:`Delete` or right click and select :menuselection:`Remove`. 

To burn to an optical disc press :kbd:`Control+B` or :menuselection:`Project --> Burn`.

To eject the disc from your drive press :menuselection:`Device --> Eject`. To view information on the disc you have inserted :menuselection:`Device --> Media Info`.

If you want to Rip a cd or copy its contents to your computer :menuselection:`Tools --> Rip Audio CD`. Then the files will be selected and a button for :guilabel:`Start Ripping` will appear. To change what kind of file to save your files copied to your computer is under the :guilabel:`Filetype` drop down menu. To toggle whether to create a playlist based on the different tracks on the CD check/uncheck the :guilabel:`Create m3u playlist` for all the files on the disc. To choose where to save your files press the :guilabel:`Target Folder` or press the upward pointing arrow to bring a dialog box to choose where to save the file. To actually rip the media press the :guilabel:`Start ripping` button. 

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: k3b.png

How to Launch
-------------
To launch K3b from the menu :menuselection:`sound and video --> K3b` or run 

.. code:: 

   K3b 
   
from the command line.

Commit message:

Add note on side pane to the left

source/2/2.5/2.5.1/K3b.rst, after:

Chapter 2.5.1 K3b
=================

K3b is the default CD or DVD buring software on Lubuntu. 

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 18.04.3 of K3b.

Useage
------
To start a new data project to save documents and other files :menuselection:`File --> New Project --> New Data Project`. To add files to a project :menuselection:`Add Files...`. After doing this a dialog to open files will open up. To select mulitple files to add at this time press :kbd:`Control+ Left click` on the files. Another way to add files is to left click on your files in the center of the window. To swtich to a folder double click on them with the left mouse button on a folder. To go up a level press the button that is an upward pointed arrow button. To go back to a previous folder press the leftward pointed arrow button. To go forward to a folder you went back from press the rightward pointed arrow. Another way to switch folders is to click on the folder names on the side pane to the left. 

The files you add to your project will now be shown at a pane towards the bottom of the screen. If you decide against adding a file after adding it you can select it by left clicking and pressing :kbd:`Delete` or right click and select :menuselection:`Remove`. 

To burn to an optical disc press :kbd:`Control+B` or :menuselection:`Project --> Burn`.

To eject the disc from your drive press :menuselection:`Device --> Eject`. To view information on the disc you have inserted :menuselection:`Device --> Media Info`.

If you want to Rip a cd or copy its contents to your computer :menuselection:`Tools --> Rip Audio CD`. Then the files will be selected and a button for :guilabel:`Start Ripping` will appear. To change what kind of file to save your files copied to your computer is under the :guilabel:`Filetype` drop down menu. To toggle whether to create a playlist based on the different tracks on the CD check/uncheck the :guilabel:`Create m3u playlist` for all the files on the disc. To choose where to save your files press the :guilabel:`Target Folder` or press the upward pointing arrow to bring a dialog box to choose where to save the file. To actually rip the media press the :guilabel:`Start ripping` button. 

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: k3b.png

How to Launch
-------------
To launch K3b from the menu :menuselection:`sound and video --> K3b` or run 

.. code:: 

   K3b 
   
from the command line.
