source/5/5.4/window_management.rst, before:

Chapter 5.4 Window Management
=============================

Window are the area which contains the graphical user interface that we interact with programs. In Lubuntu these windows can typically be opened, closed, resized and minimized. Underneath Lubuntu uses Openbox as default a window manager. 

Using the mouse
---------------
In the top-right corner of a windows a few commands allow you basic controls of the window. Starting from left to right

-   Iconify (-) hides/minimizes the window making it only appear on the task bar of the Panel. It can be recalled by clicking on the application on the task bar, or cycling through open windows with (ALT + Tab)
-   Maximize reshapes the window to fix the entire screen.
-   Close (x) attempts to end the window and probably the program.

.. image:: window_corner.png

The window can be moved by by clicking on the title-bar and dragging the mouse.
You can resize the window by grabbing the border (sides or corners which should be highlighted in blue) and dragging. 

Right clicking on the title bar and left clicking on the icon located at the top-left of the window  brings the window management menu. Here you can:
-   Using Send to desktop, send the window to a virtual desktop of your choice
-   Using Layer option allows you to set  whether this windows is always on top, etc. 
-   If you want to move something to always show to bottom or you can move it back to normal. 
-   The earlier mentioned Iconify, Maximize, Close, and Resize option are also available here.
-   Roll up/down rolls the window into the title-bar.
-   Decorate/Undecorate hides them title-bar.

Useful keyboard shortcuts
-------------------------
-   Closing a window (Alt + F4)
-   Switching through windows (Hold Alt + hit Tab)
-   Resizing windows, Super (windows key) + directional arrows.

Screenshots
-----------
.. image:: snap_left_right.png

.. image:: snap_up_down.png

Commit message:

Add resize to window management

source/5/5.4/window_management.rst, after:

Chapter 5.4 Window Management
=============================

Window are the area which contains the graphical user interface that we interact with programs. In Lubuntu these windows can typically be opened, closed, resized and minimized. Underneath Lubuntu uses Openbox as default a window manager. 

Using the mouse
---------------
In the top-right corner of a windows a few commands allow you basic controls of the window. Starting from left to right

-   Iconify (-) hides/minimizes the window making it only appear on the task bar of the Panel. It can be recalled by clicking on the application on the task bar, or cycling through open windows with (ALT + Tab)
-   Maximize reshapes the window to fix the entire screen.
-   Close (x) attempts to end the window and probably the program.

.. image:: window_corner.png

The window can be moved by by clicking on the title-bar and dragging the mouse.
You can resize the window by grabbing the border (sides or corners which should be highlighted in blue) and dragging. 

Right clicking on the title bar and left clicking on the icon located at the top-left of the window  brings the window management menu. Here you can:
-   Using Send to desktop, send the window to a virtual desktop of your choice
-   Using Layer option allows you to set  whether this windows is always on top, etc. 
-   If you want to move something to always show to bottom or you can move it back to normal. 
-   The earlier mentioned Iconify, Maximize, Close, and Resize option are also available here.
-   Roll up/down rolls the window into the title-bar.
-   Decorate/Undecorate hides them title-bar.
-   Resize lets you use the change the size of a window. 

Useful keyboard shortcuts
-------------------------
-   Closing a window (Alt + F4)
-   Switching through windows (Hold Alt + hit Tab)
-   Resizing windows, Super (windows key) + directional arrows.

Screenshots
-----------
.. image:: snap_left_right.png

.. image:: snap_up_down.png
