source/2/2.3/2.3.2/screenshot.rst, before:

Chapter 2.3.2 Screenshot
========================

Screenshot is a program to take screenshots.

Useage
------
To use screenshot the whole screen takes a screenshot of your entire screen, current window only takes only the current window and capture an area of the screen lets you select an area interacetively. To start the interactive area left click and then drag the mouse in a rectangle to select the area you want to take a screenshot. There is also a delay for the screenshot you can set like a timer for a camera in the bottom right corner of the screen. 

To have your titlebar and frame around the window on a current window is a checkbox on the bottom. The include mouse cursor will include your mouse cursor in the screenshot. 

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: screenshot.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 0.7.0 of screenshot. 

How to Launch
-------------
To launch screenshot from the menu :menuselection:`Grapics --> Screenshot` or run
.. code:: 

   lximage-qt -s 

from the command line. Pressing the printscreen key also brings up the screenshot dialog.

Commit message:

Add how to save a screenshot

source/2/2.3/2.3.2/screenshot.rst, after:

Chapter 2.3.2 Screenshot
========================

Screenshot is a program to take screenshots.

Useage
------
To use screenshot the whole screen takes a screenshot of your entire screen, current window only takes only the current window and capture an area of the screen lets you select an area interacetively. To start the interactive area left click and then drag the mouse in a rectangle to select the area you want to take a screenshot. There is also a delay for the screenshot you can set like a timer for a camera in the bottom right corner of the screen. 

To have your titlebar and frame around the window on a current window is a checkbox on the bottom. The include mouse cursor will include your mouse cursor in the screenshot. 

After taking your screenshot it will open up in the image viewer and to save it press :kbd:`Control + S` or :menuselection:`File --> Save`. 

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: screenshot.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 0.7.0 of screenshot. 

How to Launch
-------------
To launch screenshot from the menu :menuselection:`Grapics --> Screenshot` or run
.. code:: 

   lximage-qt -s 

from the command line. Pressing the printscreen key also brings up the screenshot dialog.
