source/2/2.1/2.1.5/trojita.rst, before:

Chapter 2.1.5 Trojita
=====================

Trojita is the default IMAP email client of Lubuntu.

Version
-------
Lubuntu Ships with version 0.7-0 of trojita.

Useage
------
To use trojita you will need to input your account information. After entering this in you will be asked to check the certificate for your server and will need to select the :guilabel:`yes` for the first time. If you did not insert your password to be stored on your computer a dialog box will popup and you will need to input it.

After you have set everything up a set of folders will appear on the left hand side. 

To send an email to someone press :kbd:`Control +N` or :menuselection:`Imap --> Compose Mail --> New Message`. Then you will bring up a compose mail window. Type the email address of the person you want to type the address where it says :guilabel:`To`. Put the subject of your message in the :guilabel:`Subject` line. In the main part of the message called the body is where you will add most of your message. If you want to attach a file to your email press the button with the paperclip on it that says :guilabel:`Attach`. To send your message press the :guilabel:`Send` button.

To view your messages on trojita to see new messages you have recieved in your inbox left click on the word :guilabel:`Inbox`. In the center of the window will show a list of all messages in your inbox. Unread messages will appear in bold. To view a message left click on the title and subject of the window and it will appear at the bottom. If you want to open this email in a popup window of its own double click the message title. To reply to a message to just the person that sent it press :kbd:`Control + Shift +A` or :menuselection:`IMAP --> Private Reply`.  

To manually check for new messages :menuselection:`Mailbox --> Check for new messages`.

How to launch
--------------
To launch trojita from the menu :menuselection:`Internet --> trojita` with the icon that looks like an envolope or run

.. code::

   trojita 
 
from the command line.

Commit message:

Add filtering of mesages based on if read

source/2/2.1/2.1.5/trojita.rst, after:

Chapter 2.1.5 Trojita
=====================

Trojita is the default IMAP email client of Lubuntu.

Version
-------
Lubuntu Ships with version 0.7-0 of trojita.

Useage
------
To use trojita you will need to input your account information. After entering this in you will be asked to check the certificate for your server and will need to select the :guilabel:`yes` for the first time. If you did not insert your password to be stored on your computer a dialog box will popup and you will need to input it.

After you have set everything up a set of folders will appear on the left hand side. 

To send an email to someone press :kbd:`Control +N` or :menuselection:`Imap --> Compose Mail --> New Message`. Then you will bring up a compose mail window. Type the email address of the person you want to type the address where it says :guilabel:`To`. Put the subject of your message in the :guilabel:`Subject` line. In the main part of the message called the body is where you will add most of your message. If you want to attach a file to your email press the button with the paperclip on it that says :guilabel:`Attach`. To send your message press the :guilabel:`Send` button.

To view your messages on trojita to see new messages you have recieved in your inbox left click on the word :guilabel:`Inbox`. In the center of the window will show a list of all messages in your inbox. Unread messages will appear in bold. To view a message left click on the title and subject of the window and it will appear at the bottom. If you want to open this email in a popup window of its own double click the message title. To reply to a message to just the person that sent it press :kbd:`Control + Shift +A` or :menuselection:`IMAP --> Private Reply`.   

To manually check for new messages :menuselection:`Mailbox --> Check for new messages`. To hide read messages :menuselection:`View --> Hide read messages` and uncheck this to see read messages again 

How to launch
--------------
To launch trojita from the menu :menuselection:`Internet --> trojita` with the icon that looks like an envolope or run

.. code::

   trojita 
 
from the command line.
