source/5/5.5/keyboard_menu_navigation.rst, before:

Chapter 5.5 Keyboard Menu Navigation
====================================

Lubuntu 18.10 allows you to move through the menus of with only the keyboard instead of having to use the mouse. Looking at the menus there is an underlined with a letter. To open that menu with a for example  the file menu in libreoffice writer can be opened with :kbd:`Alt + F`. One other thing to notice is that with :kbd:`Alt + underlined character`. The currently selected menu item will appear in a different color. 

Once you have the menu opened you can use the up and down arrow keys to move up and down in a menu. If the menu has :menuselection:`-->` to the right you can press :kbd:`Right arrow` to expand into a submenu. To move back up a level from the menu press :kbd:`Left arrow`. If you want to exit the menu press :kbd:`escape`. To move to adjacent menu to the left press :kbd:`Alt + left arrow`. To move to an adjacent menu to the right press :kbd:`Alt + right arrow`. To activate an item on your menu press :kbd:`Enter`.

Commit message:

Add hold down alt to show menu

source/5/5.5/keyboard_menu_navigation.rst, after:

Chapter 5.5 Keyboard Menu Navigation
====================================

Lubuntu 18.10 allows you to move through the menus of with only the keyboard instead of having to use the mouse. Looking at the menus there is an underlined with a letter. To open that menu with a for example  the file menu in libreoffice writer can be opened with :kbd:`Alt + F`. One other thing to notice is that with :kbd:`Alt + underlined character`. The currently selected menu item will appear in a different color. If you want to see on your menu to have the menu shown hold down :kbd:`Alt` and then press that key to see what it is to press.

Once you have the menu opened you can use the up and down arrow keys to move up and down in a menu. If the menu has :menuselection:`-->` to the right you can press :kbd:`Right arrow` to expand into a submenu. To move back up a level from the menu press :kbd:`Left arrow`. If you want to exit the menu press :kbd:`escape`. To move to adjacent menu to the left press :kbd:`Alt + left arrow`. To move to an adjacent menu to the right press :kbd:`Alt + right arrow`. To activate an item on your menu press :kbd:`Enter`.
