source/3/3.2/3.2.2/appearnce.rst, before:

Chapter 3.2.2 Appearance
========================

Appearnce is a program that changes the theming of lxqt for a different visual look.

Screenshot
----------
 .. image :: appearnce.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 0.13.0 of appearance. 

Useage
------
To change the useage Qt widget will change the buttons and tooblbars look on lubuntu in Qt applications. Check to apply Set GTk settings will apply to GTk applications. The checkbox to apply on single click has makes things you normally need two clicks for one click.  

The icons theme changes desktop icons on your computer and if you click on the icon theme which is previewed on horizontal rows.

To change the font size that desktop applications use choose the font tab and use the point size and enter in the size you want or use the up and down arrows to increase or decrease font size respectively. To change the default font there is a drop down box for font name that you can type the font name you or select from the drop down menu. The checkbox for antialias and font hinting for fonts lets you also set antialiased fonts which are enabled for easier screen viewing. The DPI sets the resolution of your screen or dots per inch.  

The cursor theme lets you change how the cursor looks with two themes installed by default but more available in the package repositories. 

How to launch
-------------
To launch appearnce in the menu :menuselection:`prefrences --> Lxqt settings --> appearance`. Another way is to press the Appearance button from LXQt configuration center or run 

.. code:: 

    lxqt-config-appearance 
    
from the command line.

Commit message:

Add reset button to appearance

source/3/3.2/3.2.2/appearnce.rst, after:

Chapter 3.2.2 Appearance
========================

Appearnce is a program that changes the theming of lxqt for a different visual look.

Screenshot
----------
 .. image :: appearnce.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 0.13.0 of appearance. 

Useage
------
To change the useage Qt widget will change the buttons and tooblbars look on lubuntu in Qt applications. Check to apply Set GTk settings will apply to GTk applications. The checkbox to apply on single click has makes things you normally need two clicks for one click.  

The icons theme changes desktop icons on your computer and if you click on the icon theme which is previewed on horizontal rows.

To change the font size that desktop applications use choose the font tab and use the point size and enter in the size you want or use the up and down arrows to increase or decrease font size respectively. To change the default font there is a drop down box for font name that you can type the font name you or select from the drop down menu. The checkbox for antialias and font hinting for fonts lets you also set antialiased fonts which are enabled for easier screen viewing. The DPI sets the resolution of your screen or dots per inch.  

The cursor theme lets you change how the cursor looks with two themes installed by default but more available in the package repositories. 

If you want to reset your changes you will need to click the reset button to revert your changes to how they were before. 


How to launch
-------------
To launch appearnce in the menu :menuselection:`prefrences --> Lxqt settings --> appearance`. Another way is to press the Appearance button from LXQt configuration center or run 

.. code:: 

    lxqt-config-appearance 
    
from the command line.
