source/3/3.2/3.2.1/LXQt_configuration_center.rst, before:

Chapter 3.2.1 LXQt Configuration Center
=======================================

LXQt Configuration Center is the default "control center" application with buttons that launches configuration options for LXQt the default desktop environment of Lubuntu. 

Usage
------
LXQt configuration center lets you launch many different applications in this chapter from a simple control center where you can double click on the icon for that program. To close one of the programs here you have launched you can close it by pressing :kbd:`Escape`. Another way to select programs is move the currently selected item with the arrow keys on your keyboard and you can launch a program by pressing :kbd:`Enter`.

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: configuration_center.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 0.14.1 of LXQt Configuration Center.

How to Launch
-------------

To launch LXQt Configuration Center from the menu :menuselection:`Preferences --> LXQt settings --> LXQt Configuration Center` or run

.. code:: 

   lxqt-config 
   
from the command line.

Commit message:

Describe LXQt Configuration Center icon

source/3/3.2/3.2.1/LXQt_configuration_center.rst, after:

Chapter 3.2.1 LXQt Configuration Center
=======================================

LXQt Configuration Center is the default "control center" application with buttons that launches configuration options for LXQt the default desktop environment of Lubuntu. 

Usage
------
LXQt configuration center lets you launch many different applications in this chapter from a simple control center where you can double click on the icon for that program. To close one of the programs here you have launched you can close it by pressing :kbd:`Escape`. Another way to select programs is move the currently selected item with the arrow keys on your keyboard and you can launch a program by pressing :kbd:`Enter`.

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: configuration_center.png

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 0.14.1 of LXQt Configuration Center.

How to Launch
-------------

To launch LXQt Configuration Center from the menu :menuselection:`Preferences --> LXQt settings --> LXQt Configuration Center` or run

.. code:: 

   lxqt-config 
   
from the command line. The icon for LXQt Configuration Center is a light bulb with a gear behind it.
