source/3/3.2/3.2.4/date_and_time.rst, before:

Chapter 3.2.4 Date and Time
===========================

Date and time is a program that lets you change your timezone toggle wheter to get the time automatically and change the date if you are not connected to a network.

Useage
------
If you want to toggle synchronizing the time of network press the radio button of Enable network time synchronization button. To change the timezone of your computer press the timezone gear and select your time zone from the long list.

If you do not wish to synchronize your clock via network time protocol. Once you want to be able to change your time locally you will be able to change it in the time put will type your time in the time in the time by typing a new time in.

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: date_and_time.png 

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 0.13.0 of Date and time. 

How to launch
-------------
To launch date and time from the menu :menuselection:`Preferences --> LXQt settings --> Date and Time`. From LXQt configuration center under the system settings header at the bottom press the date and time button or from the command line run

.. code:: 

    lxqt-admin-time

Commit message:

Add date_and_time RTC clock

source/3/3.2/3.2.4/date_and_time.rst, after:

Chapter 3.2.4 Date and Time
===========================

Date and time is a program that lets you change your timezone toggle wheter to get the time automatically and change the date if you are not connected to a network.

Useage
------
If you want to toggle synchronizing the time of network press the radio button of Enable network time synchronization button. To change the timezone of your computer press the timezone gear and select your time zone from the long list. The checkbox for RTC is in local time is for the real time clock on your motherboard.

If you do not wish to synchronize your clock via network time protocol. Once you want to be able to change your time locally you will be able to change it in the time put will type your time in the time in the time by typing a new time in.

Screenshot
----------
.. image:: date_and_time.png 

Version
-------
Lubuntu ships with version 0.13.0 of Date and time. 

How to launch
-------------
To launch date and time from the menu :menuselection:`Preferences --> LXQt settings --> Date and Time`. From LXQt configuration center under the system settings header at the bottom press the date and time button or from the command line run

.. code:: 

    lxqt-admin-time
